libs/libdoc/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: libdoc
description: >
  libdoc - Documentation build and serve tools for Forward Impact. DocsBuilder
  generates static sites from Markdown with Mustache templates. DocsServer
  provides local development server. parseFrontMatter extracts YAML metadata
  from markdown files. Use for generating documentation websites.
---

# libdoc Skill

## When to Use

- Building static documentation sites from markdown
- Serving documentation locally during development
- Parsing YAML front matter from markdown files
- Generating HTML from markdown with templates

## Key Concepts

**DocsBuilder**: Processes markdown files with front matter, applies Mustache
templates, and outputs static HTML.

**DocsServer**: Local development server with live reload for documentation
preview.

**parseFrontMatter**: Extracts YAML metadata from markdown file headers.

## Usage Patterns

### Pattern 1: Build documentation

```javascript
import { DocsBuilder } from "@forwardimpact/libdoc";

const builder = new DocsBuilder({
  srcDir: "docs",
  outDir: "public",
});
await builder.build();
```

### Pattern 2: Parse front matter

```javascript
import { parseFrontMatter } from "@forwardimpact/libdoc";

const { data, content } = parseFrontMatter(markdownContent);
console.log(data.title); // From YAML header
```

## Integration

Used to build the Forward Impact documentation site. Output served via static
file hosting.

### CLI Usage

```sh
# Build documentation
npx fit-doc build --src=docs --out=dist

# Serve with live reload
npx fit-doc serve --watch
```

## Creating Templates

Documentation sites require three components in the source directory:

### 1. Template File (`index.template.html`)

Mustache template with these variables:

| Variable                                | Description                                   |
| --------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| `{{title}}`                             | Page title from front matter                  |
| `{{{content}}}`                         | Rendered HTML content (triple braces for raw) |
| `{{#hasToc}}`                           | Conditional: true if `toc` is not `false`     |
| `{{{toc}}}`                             | Generated table of contents HTML              |
| `{{#description}}` / `{{/description}}` | Conditional description block                 |

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <title>{{title}}</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>{{title}}</h1>
    {{#hasToc}}
    <nav>{{{toc}}}</nav>
    {{/hasToc}} {{{content}}}
  </body>
</html>
```

### 2. Markdown Files with Front Matter

Each `.md` file needs YAML front matter:

```yaml
---
title: Page Title
description: Optional page description
toc: true # Set to false to hide table of contents
---
Your markdown content here...
```

### 3. Assets Directory (Optional)

Static files in `assets/` are copied to the output directory. Typically includes
CSS and JavaScript:

```
docs/
├── index.template.html
├── assets/
│   ├── main.css
│   └── main.js
├── index.md
└── guide/
    └── index.md
```

### Output Structure

- `index.md` → `dist/index.html`
- `guide.md` → `dist/guide/index.html`
- `nested/page.md` → `dist/nested/page/index.html`

Commit message:

docs(libdoc): simplify skill description

libs/libdoc/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: libdoc
description:
  "Documentation build and serve tools. Use when building static sites from
  Markdown, serving docs locally, or parsing YAML front matter."
---

# libdoc Skill

## When to Use

- Building static documentation sites from markdown
- Serving documentation locally during development
- Parsing YAML front matter from markdown files
- Generating HTML from markdown with templates

## Key Concepts

**DocsBuilder**: Processes markdown files with front matter, applies Mustache
templates, and outputs static HTML.

**DocsServer**: Local development server with live reload for documentation
preview.

**parseFrontMatter**: Extracts YAML metadata from markdown file headers.

## Usage Patterns

### Pattern 1: Build documentation

```javascript
import { DocsBuilder } from "@forwardimpact/libdoc";

const builder = new DocsBuilder({
  srcDir: "docs",
  outDir: "public",
});
await builder.build();
```

### Pattern 2: Parse front matter

```javascript
import { parseFrontMatter } from "@forwardimpact/libdoc";

const { data, content } = parseFrontMatter(markdownContent);
console.log(data.title); // From YAML header
```

## Integration

Used to build the Forward Impact documentation site. Output served via static
file hosting.

### CLI Usage

```sh
# Build documentation
npx fit-doc build --src=docs --out=dist

# Serve with live reload
npx fit-doc serve --watch
```

## Creating Templates

Documentation sites require three components in the source directory:

### 1. Template File (`index.template.html`)

Mustache template with these variables:

| Variable                                | Description                                   |
| --------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| `{{title}}`                             | Page title from front matter                  |
| `{{{content}}}`                         | Rendered HTML content (triple braces for raw) |
| `{{#hasToc}}`                           | Conditional: true if `toc` is not `false`     |
| `{{{toc}}}`                             | Generated table of contents HTML              |
| `{{#description}}` / `{{/description}}` | Conditional description block                 |

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <title>{{title}}</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>{{title}}</h1>
    {{#hasToc}}
    <nav>{{{toc}}}</nav>
    {{/hasToc}} {{{content}}}
  </body>
</html>
```

### 2. Markdown Files with Front Matter

Each `.md` file needs YAML front matter:

```yaml
---
title: Page Title
description: Optional page description
toc: true # Set to false to hide table of contents
---
Your markdown content here...
```

### 3. Assets Directory (Optional)

Static files in `assets/` are copied to the output directory. Typically includes
CSS and JavaScript:

```
docs/
├── index.template.html
├── assets/
│   ├── main.css
│   └── main.js
├── index.md
└── guide/
    └── index.md
```

### Output Structure

- `index.md` → `dist/index.html`
- `guide.md` → `dist/guide/index.html`
- `nested/page.md` → `dist/nested/page/index.html`
