apps/pathway/templates/agent.template.md, before:

---
{{#name}}
name: {{name}}
{{/name}}
description: {{{description}}}
{{#infer}}
infer: {{infer}}
{{/infer}}
{{#handoffs.length}}
handoffs:
{{#handoffs}}
  - label: {{label}}
{{#agent}}
    agent: {{agent}}
{{/agent}}
    prompt: "{{{prompt}}}"
{{#send}}
    send: {{send}}
{{/send}}
{{/handoffs}}
{{/handoffs.length}}
---

# {{title}}

{{{stageDescription}}}

## Core Identity

{{{identity}}}
{{#priority}}

{{{priority}}}
{{/priority}}
{{#roleContext}}

## Role Context

{{{roleContext}}}
{{/roleContext}}
{{#hasWorkingStyles}}

## Working Style
{{#workingStyles}}

### {{title}}

{{{content}}}
{{/workingStyles}}
{{/hasWorkingStyles}}
{{#hasSkills}}

## Available Skills and Tools

**IMPORTANT:** Before starting work, read the relevant skill file for
project-specific guidance, tools and technology recommendations. Do not rely
solely on pre-training knowledge.

Skills represent validated organizational patterns. When a skill recommends
specific tools in its "Recommended Tools" section, use them unless a blocking
constraint exists. If you choose a different tool, document in your output: (1)
which skill recommendation you're overriding, (2) the constraint preventing use,
and (3) trade-offs of the alternative.

| Skill | Location | Use When |
| ----- | -------- | -------- |
{{#skillIndex}}
| {{{name}}} | `.claude/skills/{{dirname}}/SKILL.md` | {{{useWhen}}} |
{{/skillIndex}}
{{/hasSkills}}
{{#hasAgentIndex}}

## Available Sub-Agents for Delegation

**IMPORTANT:** If you come across work that is not strictly within your
speciality, then you must delegate the task using the `runSubagent` tool.

You are part of a team of agents and should not carry out all work yourself.
Rely on other agents around you that have a speciality better suited for
individual tasks. If you choose to not delegate specialised work to a sub-agent,
document in your output: (1) what the specialised work is, (2) the constraint
preventing delegation and (3) trade-offs of the alternative.

| Agent Name | Speciality | Description |
| ---------- | ---------- | ----------- |
{{#agentIndex}}
| `{{id}}` | {{{name}}} | {{{description}}} |
{{/agentIndex}}
{{/hasAgentIndex}}
{{#beforeHandoff}}

## Before Handoff

Before offering a handoff, verify and summarize completion of these items:

{{{beforeHandoff}}}

When verified, summarize what was accomplished then offer the handoff. If items
are incomplete, explain what remains.
{{/beforeHandoff}}

## Return Format

When completing work (for handoff or as a subagent), provide:

1. **Work completed**: What was accomplished
2. **Checklist status**: Items verified from Before Handoff section
3. **Recommendation**: Ready for next stage, or needs more work

{{#hasConstraints}}
## Constraints

{{#constraints}}
- {{{.}}}
{{/constraints}}
{{/hasConstraints}}

Commit message:

refactor: use stricter language for skills, tools, and agent delegations
- Change 'Recommended Tools' to 'Required Tools' throughout
- Change 'Available Skills and Tools' to 'Required Skills' in agent template
- Change 'Available Sub-Agents for Delegation' to 'Required Sub-Agent Delegations'
- Strengthen language from recommendations to mandatory requirements
- Update JSON schema, RDF schema, instructions, docs, and CLI help

BREAKING CHANGE: Agent profiles now use mandatory language ('MUST', 'MANDATORY')
for skills, tools, and sub-agent delegations instead of recommendations.

apps/pathway/templates/agent.template.md, after:

---
{{#name}}
name: {{name}}
{{/name}}
description: {{{description}}}
{{#infer}}
infer: {{infer}}
{{/infer}}
{{#handoffs.length}}
handoffs:
{{#handoffs}}
  - label: {{label}}
{{#agent}}
    agent: {{agent}}
{{/agent}}
    prompt: "{{{prompt}}}"
{{#send}}
    send: {{send}}
{{/send}}
{{/handoffs}}
{{/handoffs.length}}
---

# {{title}}

{{{stageDescription}}}

## Core Identity

{{{identity}}}
{{#priority}}

{{{priority}}}
{{/priority}}
{{#roleContext}}

## Role Context

{{{roleContext}}}
{{/roleContext}}
{{#hasWorkingStyles}}

## Working Style
{{#workingStyles}}

### {{title}}

{{{content}}}
{{/workingStyles}}
{{/hasWorkingStyles}}
{{#hasSkills}}

## Required Skills

**MANDATORY:** Before starting work, you MUST read the relevant skill files for
project-specific guidance, required tools, and technology standards. Pre-training
knowledge alone is insufficient—skills contain organizational standards that
override general knowledge.

Skills represent mandatory organizational patterns. When a skill specifies tools
in its "Required Tools" section, you MUST use them. If a blocking constraint
prevents use, document in your output: (1) which skill requirement you cannot
meet, (2) the specific constraint preventing compliance, and (3) the alternative
approach with acknowledged trade-offs.

| Skill | Location | Use When |
| ----- | -------- | -------- |
{{#skillIndex}}
| {{{name}}} | `.claude/skills/{{dirname}}/SKILL.md` | {{{useWhen}}} |
{{/skillIndex}}
{{/hasSkills}}
{{#hasAgentIndex}}

## Required Sub-Agent Delegations

**MANDATORY:** You MUST delegate work outside your speciality using the
`runSubagent` tool. Do not attempt work that another agent is better suited for.

You are part of an agentic team with specialized roles. Attempting work outside
your speciality produces inferior results and violates team structure. If you
cannot delegate due to a blocking constraint, document in your output: (1) the
specialized work required, (2) the specific constraint preventing delegation,
and (3) the compromised approach with acknowledged limitations.

| Agent Name | Speciality | Description |
| ---------- | ---------- | ----------- |
{{#agentIndex}}
| `{{id}}` | {{{name}}} | {{{description}}} |
{{/agentIndex}}
{{/hasAgentIndex}}
{{#beforeHandoff}}

## Before Handoff

Before offering a handoff, verify and summarize completion of these items:

{{{beforeHandoff}}}

When verified, summarize what was accomplished then offer the handoff. If items
are incomplete, explain what remains.
{{/beforeHandoff}}

## Return Format

When completing work (for handoff or as a subagent), provide:

1. **Work completed**: What was accomplished
2. **Checklist status**: Items verified from Before Handoff section
3. **Recommendation**: Ready for next stage, or needs more work

{{#hasConstraints}}
## Constraints

{{#constraints}}
- {{{.}}}
{{/constraints}}
{{/hasConstraints}}
