apps/schema/README.md, before:

# @forwardimpact/schema

Schema definitions and data loading for skills, behaviours, and role frameworks.

## Role in the Vision

The schema package defines how engineering competencies are structured. It
provides the foundational data model that both human career progression and
coding agent team generation build upon—ensuring consistency between how we
define human roles and how agent teams understand their capabilities.

## What It Does

- **Schema definitions** — JSON Schema and RDF/SHACL for skills, behaviours,
  disciplines, tracks, and grades
- **Data loading** — Parse and validate YAML data files
- **Index generation** — Generate browser-compatible file indexes
- **Example data** — Canonical examples for testing and reference

## Usage

```sh
# Validate all data files
npx fit-schema validate

# Generate index files for browser
npx fit-schema generate-index

# Validate SHACL ontology
npx fit-schema validate --shacl
```

## Package Exports

```javascript
import { loadAllData, loadCapabilities } from "@forwardimpact/schema";
import { validateAll } from "@forwardimpact/schema/validation";
import {
  SKILL_LEVELS,
  BEHAVIOUR_MATURITIES,
} from "@forwardimpact/schema/levels";
```

## Data Structure

```
examples/
├── grades.yaml           # Career levels
├── stages.yaml           # Lifecycle stages
├── drivers.yaml          # Organizational outcomes
├── disciplines/          # Engineering specialties
├── tracks/               # Work contexts (platform, SRE, etc.)
├── behaviours/           # Approach to work
├── capabilities/         # Skills grouped by area
└── questions/            # Interview questions
```

See the [documentation](../../docs/schema/index.md) for schema details.

Commit message:

docs: reposition schema as public data model
- Restructure monorepo overview with Apps/Libraries tables
- Describe schema as public site for AI agents and engineers
- Update schema README, package.json description, and SKILL.md
- Simplify CLI tools table and root README apps section

apps/schema/README.md, after:

# @forwardimpact/schema

A public site describing the data model for consumption by AI agents and
engineers.

## Role in the Vision

The schema app is the fundamental underpinning of all Forward Impact apps. It
defines how engineering competencies, career progression, and agent capabilities
are structured—and publishes that structure in machine-readable formats so AI
agents can reliably interpret and work with career framework data.

Making the schema well understood is a first-class goal. By publishing JSON
Schema and RDF/SHACL definitions alongside canonical example data, we ensure
that every consumer—human or AI—shares a consistent understanding of the data
model.

## What It Does

- **Public data model** — JSON Schema and RDF/SHACL definitions for skills,
  behaviours, disciplines, tracks, and grades
- **Data loading** — Parse and validate YAML data files
- **Validation** — Enforce referential integrity, required fields, and schema
  compliance
- **Index generation** — Generate browser-compatible file indexes
- **Example data** — Canonical examples for testing and reference

## Usage

```sh
# Validate all data files
npx fit-schema validate

# Generate index files for browser
npx fit-schema generate-index

# Validate SHACL ontology
npx fit-schema validate --shacl
```

## Package Exports

```javascript
import { loadAllData, loadCapabilities } from "@forwardimpact/schema";
import { validateAll } from "@forwardimpact/schema/validation";
import {
  SKILL_LEVELS,
  BEHAVIOUR_MATURITIES,
} from "@forwardimpact/schema/levels";
```

## Data Structure

```
examples/
├── grades.yaml           # Career levels
├── stages.yaml           # Lifecycle stages
├── drivers.yaml          # Organizational outcomes
├── disciplines/          # Engineering specialties
├── tracks/               # Work contexts (platform, SRE, etc.)
├── behaviours/           # Approach to work
├── capabilities/         # Skills grouped by area
└── questions/            # Interview questions
```

See the [documentation](../../docs/schema/index.md) for schema details.
